here she lays her eggs the caterpillars
when they hatch stay feeding on the
junction for a couple of weeks but
eventually they fall to the ground there
are ants everywhere in a meadow like
this and they soon find it it smells
just like one of their own larvae and
they start to haul it back to where one
of their larvae should be in their nest
other forages from the same nest have
found another during the next few weeks
as many as half a dozen they be taken
back to the nest here they're hauled
down to the nursery chambers and put the
dance other eggs and larvae and because
the caterpillars continued to produce a
pheromone exactly like that produced by
the young ants themselves they're
treated as if they were young ants even
though they're bigger and a different
color the caterpillars even mimic the
sound the ants make when they beg for
food so workers dutifully feed and clean
them you might think that this
caterpillar has protected itself very
well by deceiving these ants but life in
the undergrowth is full of surprises
anok Newman wasp it to like the blue
butterfly wants to get its young into an
ant's nest but not merely as lodgers it
has a more sinister intention somehow or
other in a meadow full of ants nests it
can detect which one harbours a
butterfly can antennae and this it
decides is one of those once inside the
ants start to attack it as you might
expect but then the ants behavior
changes there's pandemonium the wasp has
released a pheromone that makes the amps
attack one another
with the defenders fighting among
themselves wasp is able to go deeper
into the nest it's reached the nursery
and here lie the caterpillars now they
are defenseless
the wasp sets about injecting each of
them with an egg a few ants do their
best to prevent this but there's no real
opposition
while most of the ants continue to fight
among themselves the wasp finds a second
caterpillar another egg is laid
the wasp leaves with the wasp gone the
ant colony slowly returns stolen the
caterpillars are still there alive and
apparently well and the ants continue to
careful once the caterpillars are fully
grown each starts to construct the
chrysalis which all butterflies need as
a protection while they turn themselves
into adults each chrysalis is cleaned
and protected by the ants as if it were
one of their own pupae
one begins -
out of it comes yes a blue butterfly it
leaves its foster home
out in the open its limp wings can
expand and now it's ready to flutter and
flirt just as its parents did and the
ants are still bewitched by the traces
of pheromone clinging to the empty shell
the butterfly leaves behind but there is
still others in the nest as yet
unhatched
and out of this one comes not a
butterfly but a wasp
hardwired into the microscopic brain of
this ordinary-looking insect or a whole
series of skills sensitivities and
reactions that will enable it in its
turn to give its own offspring a special
start in life it can detect what the
ants themselves find undetectable it can
tell the difference between an ant
larvae and the butterfly larvae what is
more in a meadow of a hundred ants nest
it will be able to find the one that
contains the butterfly caterpillar how
it does it
we have no idea so it seems that among
the animals of the undergrowth there are
many beneficial partnerships but
exploitation and deception can work just
as well
you